[Music]
luckily for us this time the Rhino just
seemed curious having seen these two ton
panel beaters at work and hearing what
they could do to a Land Rover I was a
bit surprised when Ted stopped the car
and we set off on foot
but Ted knows most of these rhinos
individually he's lived amongst them for
so long we knew we could trust him
with its massive bulk and huge horn it's
hard to know what a rhino actually needs
to defend itself against an adult rhino
is probably safe from everything but
it's baby isn't mess with the Rhino baby
and you have its mum to answer to this
baby rhino is just being playful but
there's two tons of heavily armed highly
strung overprotective parent right
behind time to back on the COFF comes
running up to us now we're all going to
die but Ted was relaxed he's an expert
in rhino psychology the shorter the
distance the greater the chance of it
charge right and if she charged would it
likely be a full charge or which he much
charges she's not in the mood for
charging hang on a minute if we can just
walk up to the Rhino even with a baby
and walk away unscathed it can't really
qualify as a deadly defender
well that's because these are white
rhinos white rhinos are far more calm
and Placid than they're notoriously evil
tempered cousins the black rhinos so in
my quest for the ultimate defenders it
was the black rhino we really needed to
find and Ted thought he knew where to
look
[Music]
one of the problems of rhino stalking
like this is that the fairly chilled
white rhino and the sometimes psychotic
black rhino are pretty much the same
color the differences between the two
are quite subtle so were we walking up
on a black or white rhino it was white
no problem if it was black well it was
black the black rhinos got speed and a
wicked temper but it's got poor eyesight
so long as you're fairly fit and there's
plenty of trees around you can't get
away intimidating but not an ultimate
defender it's too unfocused as they say
power is nothing without control I've
just seen a really good sized crocodile
slide into the water and I just try to
get a handle on where it is
[Music]
a crocodile of this size could be fifty
years old and would have no trouble
taking an adult wildebeest or me
[Music]
the massive male makes with the surface
but simply takes a breath and heads
straight back down towards us
[Music]
big males battle to dominate their
territories it clearly sees us as a
challenge
we've no choice but to risk and - for
the surface
[Music]
without doubt the most frightening
experience I've ever had without him to
avoid predators he travels by night a
time when his eyesight comes into its
own but he also uses his impressive
whiskers to build up a 3d picture
he uses sons pitched above our hearing
and his super-sensitive Newars
analyzes every smell
[Music]
he uses this information to create a
sensory map that in the wild would guide
him across kilometers of featureless
desert
[Music]
but his navigational equipment doesn't
stop there wherever he goes glands on
his barely laid on a scent that acts
like a paper trail allowing him to
retrace his steps back home
for a burrowing creature holes are
irresistible
[Music]
in a hamster ball is astute enough to
control the rich
[Music]
although some aspects of our modern
world are too challenging even for this
hamster
[Music]
but his incredible senses can also get
him out of trouble
[Music]
using high-pitched calls that we can
hear he detects the draweth by the sound
of the returning echoes disaster averted
he continues his secret mission one he
must complete soon Pagani hears
something
but this time it really looks like she's
hunting
[Music]
has she blown it
I don't think so she's beginning to make
her way downwind
[Music]
I think she's going to try an ambush
but she's missed it
[Music]
swishing her tail like that shows she's
frustrated
[Music]
it's not a good start the longer it
takes to eat the weaker she'll become
and the weaker she becomes the harder it
is to hunt herbivores have powerfully
muscled hind legs that give them
superlative acceleration invaluable if
you're caught unawares a second numbers
bring safety
the North American pronghorn is the
second fastest sprinter on the planet
but over long distances it's the world
champion
but all large herbivores have to be able
to run fast they run on tiptoe so that
they cover more ground with each stride
muscles are bunched at the top of the
legs so that the limbs are stream
Sungrazers formed their athleticism as
if to say I'm fit so save your energy
and pick on someone weaker
cheetah's maybe the fastest sprinters
but gazelles are better at dodging and
drinking
slimline legs however trip only to
easily and having eyes on the side of
your head so that you can't see directly
forward can be catastrophic
even so herbivores managed to
outmaneuver their enemies more often
than you might suppose
taking rules and thrusting horns are
formidable weapons this mother is going
to defend her form the buffalo has
incautiously strayed away from its herd
it surely can have no defense against
the group of lives but the rest of the
herd have noticed
[Music]
[Applause]
faced with the threat of hundreds of
tons of massed anger the lioness turns
tail
[Music]
the male lion however seems unwilling to
give up
[Music]
Buffalo with their heavy armament have
won this particular battle but the war
on the plains is a never-ending one
[Applause]